Documented new MongoDB checks and Advisors renaming (#746)
percona/pmm-doc: docs/details/develop-checks.md

> # Develop custom checks

Author: the topic describes how to develop checks for previous PMM versions as well. The introductory parts use "checks" instead of "advisor checks" or "security checks" to cover both scenarios

> # Develop custom checks

Reviewer: I'm still not sure about the name. Maybe @rnovikovP can advise us.

> # Develop custom checks

Author: @rnovikovP, @PavelKhripkov, I think I've implemented all your feedback. 
I've also added some interactivity with collapsible and tabbed notes to improve the structure of the document. Could you please check the draft page here: 
https://pmm-doc-pr-746.onrender.com/.

 
PMM offers a set of checks that can detect common security threats, performance degradation, data loss and data corruption.
 
As a developer, you can create custom checks to cover additional use cases, relevant to your specific database infrastructure.
 
## Check components
 
A check is a combination of:
 
- SQL query or MongoDB query document for extracting data from the database.
- Python script for converting extracted data into check results. This is actually a [Starlark](https://github.com/google/starlark-go) script, which is a Python dialect that adds more imperative features than Python. The script's execution environment is sandboxed and  no I/O can be done from it.
 
All checks are self-contained in the first phase, as well as in most of the planned phases.
 
This means that extracted data is processed on the PMM side and not sent back to the SaaS.
 

> However, if you have the right entitlements, you can send check results and other metadata to SaaS for implementing a History feature.

Author: @artemgavrilov do you know?

 
 
## Backend
 
![!](../_images/BackendSTT.png)
 
1. pmm-managed checks that the installation is opted-in for checks.
2. pmm-managed downloads checks file from SaaS.
3. pmm-managed verifies file signatures using a list of hard-coded public keys. At least one signature should be correct.
4. pmm-managed sends queries to pmm-agent and gathers results.
5. pmm-managed executes check scripts that produce alert information.

> 6. pmm-managed sends alerts to Alertmanager.

Reviewer 2: @PavelKhripkov  ptal https://confluence.percona.com/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=43301647

| MONGODB_BUILDINFO    | Executes db.adminCommand( { buildInfo:  1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database.    | No | [buildInfo](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/buildInfo/)| PMM 2.27 and older|
| MONGODB_GETCMDLINEOPTS          |    Executes db.adminCommand( { getCmdLineOpts: 1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database.      | No | [getCmdLineOpts](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/getCmdLineOpts/)| PMM 2.27 and older|
| MONGODB_REPLSETGETSTATUS     |   Executes db.adminCommand( { replSetGetStatus: 1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database.       | No | [replSetGetStatus](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/replSetGetStatus/)| PMM 2.27 and newer|
| MONGODB_GETDIAGNOSTICDATA |Executes db.adminCommand( { getDiagnosticData: 1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database.   | No | [MongoDB Performance](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/analyzing-mongodb-performance/#full-time-diagnostic-data-capture)| PMM 2.27 and newer|
 
## Develop custom checks
 
1.  Download the latest PMM Server and PMM Client builds:
 
    - PMM Server: [percona/pmm-server:2](https://www.percona.com/software/pmm/quickstart#)

>     - PMM Client: _pmm2-client-2.9.1.tar.gz_

Author: What should we be here instead?

>     - PMM Client: _pmm2-client-2.9.1.tar.gz_

Reviewer: I see we have instructions for client on the same page as for server: `https://www.percona.com/software/pmm/quickstart`

>     - PMM Client: _pmm2-client-2.9.1.tar.gz_

Reviewer 3: Yep, let's use latest release here. Not some pined verion.

 
4.  Create _/srv/custom-checks.yml_ inside a Docker container with the content of your check.
 
5.  The checks will run according to the time interval defined on the UI. You can see the result of running the check on the home dashboard:
 
    ![!](../_images/HomeDashboard.png)
 
6.  Click on the number of failed checks to open the Failed Checks dashboard:
 
    ![!](../_images/FailedChecks.png)
 
7.  Go into Docker container to output the logs of pmm-managed and read check logs:
 
```
# get inside the container
docker exec -it pmm-server bash
# print and watch the logs
supervisorctl tail -f pmm-managed
 
```
## Advisor checks particularities (for PMM 2.27 and newer)
PMM 2.26 and older included a set of security checks grouped under the **Security Threat Tool** option.
 
Starting with the 2.27 release, checks are grouped into a set of Advisors, according to the functionality and recommendations they provide.
 
To reflect these changes, the old **Security Threat Tool** option has been renamed to **Advisors** and the checks use a slightly different format.
 
### Check format
 

> To create advisor checks for PMM 2.27 and later, use the following format:

Author: The changes for 2.27 are actually explained right before this section.

   - Currently, Prometheus is not involved.

![!](../_images/BackendChecks.png)

## Frontend
PMM uses Aletmanager API to get information about failed checks and show them on the UI:

![!](../_images/FrontEndChecks.png)
 
 
## Check fields
Checks include the following fields:  

- **Version** (integer, required): defines what other properties are expected, what types are supported, what is expected from the script and what it can expect from the execution environment, etc.
- **Name** (string, required): defines machine-readable name (ID).
- **Summary** (string, required): defines short human-readable description.
- **Description** (string, required): defines long human-readable description.
- **Type** (string/enum, required): defines the query type and the PMM Service type for which the advisor runs. Check the list of available types in the table below.
- **Query** (string, can be absent if the type defines the whole query by itself):  The query is executed on the PMM Client side and contains query specific for the target DBMS.

> - **Script** (string, required): contains a small Starlarck program that processes query results, and returns check results. It is executed on the PMM Server side.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Script** (string, required): contains a small Starlark program that processes query results, and returns check results. It is executed on the PMM Server side.
```

 
PMM 2.12.0 and earlier function name is **check**, while newer versions use name **check_context**. Both have the same meaning.

### Function signature
 
The function signature should be **check_context** (docs, context), where **docs** is lists of docs (one doc represents one row for SQL DBMS and one document for MongoDB).

## Check severity levels
PMM can display failed checks as **Critical**, **Major** or **Trivial**. These three severity levels correspond to the following severity types in the check source:
 
 - **Critical**: emergency, alert, critical
 - **Major**: warning  
 - **Trivial**: notice, info, debug
 
## Check types

Expand the table below for the list of checks types that you can use to define your query type and the PMM Service type for which the check will run.
 
??? note alert alert-info "Check Types table (click to show/hide)"

    | Check type  |  Description | "query" required (must be empty if "No")   |  
    |---|---|---|

>     | MYSQL_SHOW |Executes 'SHOW …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26 | |Yes|
>     | MYSQL_SELECT    |     Executes 'SELECT …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26        |Yes|
>     | POSTGRESQL_SHOW     |    Executes 'SHOW ALL' command against PosgreSQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26.       |No|
>     | POSTGRESQL_SELECT      | Executes 'SELECT …' clause against PosgreSQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26.    |Yes|
>     | MONGODB_GETPARAMETER     | Executes db.adminCommand( { getParameter: "*" } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26. For more information, see [getParameter](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/getParameter/)| No|
>     | MONGODB_BUILDINFO    | Executes db.adminCommand( { buildInfo:  1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26. For more information, see [buildInfo](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/buildInfo/) | No|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    | MYSQL_SHOW |Executes 'SHOW …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6 | |Yes|
    | MYSQL_SELECT    |     Executes 'SELECT …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6        |Yes|
    | POSTGRESQL_SHOW     |    Executes 'SHOW ALL' command against PosgreSQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6.       |No|
    | POSTGRESQL_SELECT      | Executes 'SELECT …' clause against PosgreSQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6.    |Yes|
    | MONGODB_GETPARAMETER     | Executes db.adminCommand( { getParameter: "*" } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6. For more information, see [getParameter](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/getParameter/)| No|
    | MONGODB_BUILDINFO    | Executes db.adminCommand( { buildInfo:  1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6. For more information, see [buildInfo](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/buildInfo/) | No|
```

>     | MONGODB_GETCMDLINEOPTS          |    Executes db.adminCommand( { getCmdLineOpts: 1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26. For more information, see [getCmdLineOpts](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/getCmdLineOpts/) |No|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    | MONGODB_GETCMDLINEOPTS          |    Executes db.adminCommand( { getCmdLineOpts: 1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.7. For more information, see [getCmdLineOpts](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/getCmdLineOpts/) |No|
```

 
PMM 2.12.0 and earlier function name is **check**, while newer versions use name **check_context**. Both have the same meaning.

### Function signature
 
The function signature should be **check_context** (docs, context), where **docs** is lists of docs (one doc represents one row for SQL DBMS and one document for MongoDB).

## Check severity levels
PMM can display failed checks as **Critical**, **Major** or **Trivial**. These three severity levels correspond to the following severity types in the check source:
 
 - **Critical**: emergency, alert, critical
 - **Major**: warning  
 - **Trivial**: notice, info, debug
 
## Check types

Expand the table below for the list of checks types that you can use to define your query type and the PMM Service type for which the check will run.
 
??? note alert alert-info "Check Types table (click to show/hide)"

    | Check type  |  Description | "query" required (must be empty if "No")   |  
    |---|---|---|

>     | MYSQL_SHOW |Executes 'SHOW …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6 | |Yes|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | MYSQL_SHOW |Executes 'SHOW …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6 |Yes|
```

>     | MYSQL_SHOW |Executes 'SHOW …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6 | |Yes|
>     | MYSQL_SELECT    |     Executes 'SELECT …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26        |Yes|
>     | POSTGRESQL_SHOW     |    Executes 'SHOW ALL' command against PosgreSQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26.       |No|
>     | POSTGRESQL_SELECT      | Executes 'SELECT …' clause against PosgreSQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26.    |Yes|
>     | MONGODB_GETPARAMETER     | Executes db.adminCommand( { getParameter: "*" } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26. For more information, see [getParameter](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/getParameter/)| No|
>     | MONGODB_BUILDINFO    | Executes db.adminCommand( { buildInfo:  1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.26. For more information, see [buildInfo](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/buildInfo/) | No|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    | MYSQL_SHOW |Executes 'SHOW …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6 | |Yes|
    | MYSQL_SELECT    |     Executes 'SELECT …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6        |Yes|
    | POSTGRESQL_SHOW     |    Executes 'SHOW ALL' command against PosgreSQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6.       |No|
    | POSTGRESQL_SELECT      | Executes 'SELECT …' clause against PosgreSQL database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6.    |Yes|
    | MONGODB_GETPARAMETER     | Executes db.adminCommand( { getParameter: "*" } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6. For more information, see [getParameter](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/getParameter/)| No|
    | MONGODB_BUILDINFO    | Executes db.adminCommand( { buildInfo:  1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available  starting with PMM 2.6. For more information, see [buildInfo](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/buildInfo/) | No|
```

# Develop Advisor checks
 
PMM offer sets of checks that can detect common security threats, performance degradation, data loss and data corruption.
 
As a developer, you can create custom checks to cover additional use cases, relevant to your specific database infrastructure.
 
## Check components
 
A check is a combination of:
 
- A query for extracting data from the database.
- Python script for converting extracted data into check results. This is actually a [Starlark](https://github.com/google/starlark-go) script, which is a Python dialect that adds more imperative features than Python. The script's execution environment is sandboxed, and no I/O can be done from it.
 
All checks are self-contained in the first phase, as well as in most of the planned phases.
 
This means that extracted data is processed on the PMM side and not sent back to the SaaS.

## Format

``` yaml
---
checks:

>   - version: 2             <------ version increment
>     name: exampleV2
>     summary: Check format V2
>     description: Checks something important
>     interval: standard
>     family: MYSQL          <------- family
>     queries:               <-------- queries
>       - type: MYSQL_SELECT
>         query: some query
> 
>       - type: MYSQL_SHOW
>         query: some query 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - version: 1             <------ version increment
    name: exampleV1
    summary: Check format V1
    description: Checks something important
    interval: standard
    type: MYSQL_SELECT
    query:                   <-------- query
```

Reviewer: V2 is not available yet.

Reviewer 3: I think we can take some simple check from `anonymous` tier and use it as an example with comments to show the format.

    script: |
      def check_context(docs, context):
          firstQueryResults = docs[0]
          secondQueryResults = docs[1]
          // Process query results
          return results
```
  
## Backend

1. pmm-managed checks that the installation is opted-in for checks.
2. pmm-managed downloads files with checks from SaaS.
3. pmm-managed verifies file signatures using a list of hard-coded public keys. At least one signature should be correct.
4. pmm-managed sends queries to pmm-agent and gathers results.
5. pmm-managed executes check scripts that produce alert information.
6. pmm-managed sends alerts to Alermanager.
   - Due to Alertmanager design, pmm-managed has to send and re-send alerts to it much more often than the frequency with which checks are executed. This expected behaviour is not important for using checks but is important for understanding how checks work.
   - Currently, Prometheus is not involved.

![!](../_images/BackendChecks.png)

## Frontend

> PMM UI in Grafana uses Alermanager API v2 to get information about failed checks:

Reviewer 3: That was fixed. Now PMM UI uses it's own API, but inside we PMM backend still uses Alertmanager API.

![!](../_images/FrontEndChecks.png)
 
 
## Check fields

> Checks include the following fields:  

Reviewer: We don't describe field "family". Also we don't have comparison V1 vs V2 formats.

- **Version** (integer, required): defines what other properties are expected, what types are supported, what is expected from the script and what it can expect from the execution environment, etc.
- **Name** (string, required): defines machine-readable name (ID).
- **Summary** (string, required): defines short human-readable description.

> - **Description** (string, required): defines long human-readable description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Description** (string, required): defines long human-readable description.
- **Interval** (string, optional): defines running interval; one of predefined in UI (Standard, Frequent, Rare) or empty string.
```

Reviewer 3: @catalina-adam `Interval` is missing

- **Type** (string/enum, required): defines the query type and the PMM Service type for which the advisor runs. Check the list of available types in the table below.

> - **Query** (string, optional): contains an SQL query as a string with proper quoting. 

Reviewer 3: Query is required for some types, for other it should be empty. Not sure that we can call it `optional`.
Also for mongoDB it's not an SQL query. Let's say something like "contains query specific for the target DBMS"

    The query is executed on the PMM Client side and can be absent if the type defines the whole query by itself.  

> - **Script** (string, required): contains a small Python program that processes query results, and returns check results. It is executed on the PMM Server side.

Reviewer 3: I think better to use `Starlark` instead of `Python` everywhere, it's more correct.

 
## Checks script
 
The check script assumes that there is a function with a fixed name, that accepts a _list_ of _docs_ containing returned rows for SQL databases and documents for MongoDB. It returns zero, one, or several check results that are then converted to alerts.
 
PMM 2.12.0 and earlier function name is **check**, while newer versions use name **check_context**. Both have the same meaning.

### Function signature
 

> The function signature can be **check_context** (docs, context), where docs are lists of docs (one list of dicts for each query). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function signature should be **check_context** (docs, context), where **docs** is lists of docs (one list of dicts for each query). 
```

> The function signature should be **check_context** (docs, context), where **docs** is lists of docs (one list of dicts for each query). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The function signature should be **check_context** (docs, context), where **docs** is lists of docs (one doc represents one row for SQL DBMS and one document for MongoDB). 
```

We are not released multy-query support yet. So each check has only one query.

  
## Check severity levels
PMM can display failed checks as **Critical**, **Major** or **Trivial**. These three severity levels correspond to the following severity types in the check source:
 
 - **Critical**: emergency, alert, critical
 - **Major**: warning  
 - **Trivial**: notice, info, debug
 
## Check types

Expand the table below for the list of checks types that you can use to define your query type and the PMM Service type for which the check will run.
 
??? note alert alert-info "Check Types table (click to show/hide)"

>     | Check type  |  Description | "query" required (must be empty if no)   |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Check type  |  Description | "query" required (must be empty if "No")   |  
```

    |---|---|---|
    | MYSQL_SHOW |Executes 'SHOW …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available for PMM 2.27 and older | |Yes|
    | MYSQL_SELECT    |     Executes 'SELECT …' clause against MySQL database. This check is available for PMM 2.27 and older.       |Yes|
    | POSTGRESQL_SHOW     |    Executes 'SHOW ALL' command against PosgreSQL database.  This check is available for PMM 2.27 and older.       |No|
    | POSTGRESQL_SELECT      | Executes 'SELECT …' clause against PosgreSQL database. This check is available for PMM 2.27 and older.    |Yes|

>     | MONGODB_GETPARAMETER     | Executes db.adminCommand( { getParameter: "*" } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database.  This check is available for PMM 2.27 and older.   For more information, see [getParameter](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/getParameter/)| No|

Reviewer 3: These types available since 2.6.0

>     | MONGODB_BUILDINFO    | Executes db.adminCommand( { buildInfo:  1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available for PMM 2.27 and older. For more information, see [buildInfo](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/buildInfo/) | No|

Reviewer 3: These types available since 2.6.0

>     | MONGODB_GETCMDLINEOPTS          |    Executes db.adminCommand( { getCmdLineOpts: 1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database. This check is available for PMM 2.27 and older. For more information, see [getCmdLineOpts](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/command/getCmdLineOpts/) |No|

Reviewer 3: This one since 2.7.0

    -e PERCONA_TEST_CHECKS_DISABLE_START_DELAY=true \
    -e PERCONA_TEST_CHECKS_RESEND_INTERVAL=2s \
    perconalab/pmm-server:dev-latest
    ```
 
3.  Log in to Grafana with credentials **admin/admin**.
 
4. Go to **Configuration > Settings > Advanced Settings** and enable **Advisors**. For PMM 2.26 and older this option is called **Security Threat Tool**.
 
4.  Create _/srv/custom-checks.yml_ inside a Docker container with the content of your check.
 
5.  The checks will run according to the time interval defined on the UI. You can see the result of running the check on the home dashboard:
 
    ![!](../_images/HomeDashboard.png)
 
6.  Click on the number of failed checks to open the Failed Checks dashboard:
 
    ![!](../_images/FailedChecks.png)
 
7.  Go into Docker container to output the logs of pmm-managed and read check logs:
 
```
# get inside the container
docker exec -it pmm-server bash
# print and watch the logs
supervisorctl tail -f pmm-managed
 
```
## Develop security checks for PMM 2.26 and older

### Advisor checks versus security checks
PMM 2.26 and older included a set of security checks grouped under the **Security Threat Tool** option.
 

> Starting with the 2.27 release PMM introduced new checks and grouped them into set of Advisors, according to the functionality and recommendations they provide.

Reviewer 3: We don't have any grouping yet, but we will add it soon.

> To reflect these changes, the old **Security Threat Tool** option in PMM 2.26 in earlier has been renamed to **Advisors** and the checks use a slightly different format.

Reviewer 3: For now we have only one format. Also we plan to keep support of V1 event when V2 will be released.

### Format
To create advisor checks for PMM 2.26 and older, use the following format.

> The function signature checks developed for PMM 2.26 and older should be **def check(docs)**, where **docs** is a list of dicts.

Reviewer 3: 2.27 uses the same format.

    tiers: [ anonymous, registered ]
    interval: standard
    family: MYSQL          <------- family
    queries:               <-------- queries
      - type: MYSQL_SELECT
        query: some query

      - type: MYSQL_SHOW
        query: some query 

    script: |
      def check_context(docs, context):
          firstQueryResults = docs[0]
          secondQueryResults = docs[1]
          // Process query results
          return results
```
  
## Backend

1. pmm-managed checks that the installation is opted-in for checks.
2. pmm-managed downloads checks file from SaaS.
3. pmm-managed verifies file signatures using a list of hard-coded public keys. At least one signature should be correct.
4. pmm-managed sends queries to pmm-agent and gathers results.
5. pmm-managed executes check scripts that produce alert information.
6. pmm-managed sends alerts to Alermanager.
   - Due to Alertmanager design, pmm-managed has to send and re-send alerts to it much more often than the frequency with which checks are executed. This expected behaviour is not important for using checks but is important for understanding how checks work.
   - Currently, Prometheus is not involved.

> ![!](../_images/BackendChecks.png)

Author: @artemgavrilov, do you know who has the sources for these diagrams and can update?

> ![!](../_images/BackendChecks.png)

Reviewer 3: That was me, but I can't find diagram file on my laptop. 

P.S. I used this site to draw it: https://app.diagrams.net/

## Frontend
PMM UI in Grafana uses Alermanager API v2 to get information about failed checks:

![!](../_images/FrontEndChecks.png)
 
 
## Check fields

> Checks include the following fields:  

Reviewer: Why don't we explain the meaning of field "tiers"?

    | MONGODB_GETDIAGNOSTICDATA |Executes db.adminCommand( { getDiagnosticData: 1 } ) against MongoDB's "admin" database.   | No | PMM 2.27 and newer| [MongoDB Performance](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/analyzing-mongodb-performance/#full-time-diagnostic-data-capture)| 

    
## Develop custom checks
 
1.  Install the latest PMM Server and PMM Client builds following the [installation instructions](https://www.percona.com/software/pmm/quickstart#). 
2.  Run PMM Server with special environment variables:
 
    - _PMM_DEBUG=1_ to enable debug output that would be useful later;
    - _PERCONA_TEST_CHECKS_FILE=/srv/custom-checks.yml_ to use checks from the local files instead of downloading them from the SaaS.
    - _PERCONA_TEST_CHECKS_DISABLE_START_DELAY=true_ to disable the default check execution start delay. This is currently set to one minute, so that checks run upon system start.
    - _PERCONA_TEST_CHECKS_RESEND_INTERVAL=2s_ to define the frequency for sending the SA-based alerts to Alertmanager.
 
    ```
    docker run -p 80:80 -p 443:443 --name pmm-server \
 
    -e PMM_DEBUG=1 \
    -e PERCONA_TEST_CHECKS_FILE=/srv/custom-checks.yml \

>     -e PERCONA_TEST_CHECKS_DISABLE_START_DELAY=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -e PERCONA_TEST_CHECKS_DISABLE_START_DELAY=true \
```

 
    ![!](../_images/FailedChecks.png)
 
7.  Go into Docker container to output the logs of pmm-managed and read check logs:
 
```
# get inside the container
docker exec -it pmm-server bash
# print and watch the logs
supervisorctl tail -f pmm-managed
 
```
### Function signature for Advisor checks
 
The function signature for PMM 2.27 and later can be **check_context** (docs, context), where docs are lists of docs (one list of dicts for each query). 

### No query parameter for MongoDB advisors
 Contrary to Security Checks (developed for PMM 2.26 and older) Advisor checks for PMM 2.27 and later do not yet support a query parameter for MongoDB.
 
## Advisor checks versus security checks
PMM 2.26 and older included a set of security checks grouped under the **Security Threat Tool** option.
 
Starting with the 2.27 release PMM introduced new checks and grouped them into set of Advisors, according to the functionality and recommendations they provide.
 
To reflect these changes, the old **Security Threat Tool** option in PMM 2.26 in earlier has been renamed to **Advisors** and the checks use a slightly different format.

### Develop security checks for PMM 2.26 and older

> The query for Security Checks (developed for PMM 2.26 and older) can also contain a MongoDB query document (as a string with proper quoting).

Reviewer: Nope, they cannot. Too many mentions of this difference which not exists). Since we couldn't use query in previous versions nor we can use it in the current one, let's reduce amount of mentioning this not-implemented-yet feature.

### Function signature for security checks
 

> The function signature checks developed for PMM 2.26 and older can be **def check(docs)**  or **def check_context** (docs, context), where **docs** is a list of dicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function signature checks developed for PMM 2.26 and older should be **def check(docs)**, where **docs** is a list of dicts.
```

                          "latest":  format_version_num(latest),
                      },
                  })
 
              return results
```
 
### Function signature
 

> The function signature can be **def check(docs)**  or **def check_context** (docs, context), where docs are a list of dicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function signature can be **def check(docs)**  or **def check_context** (docs, context), where **docs** is a list of dicts.
```
